Welcome back in in this lesson we're going to look closer at traversing through the dawn.
So this portrait part of when you're working with content that's available within your aged him all
that you have the ability to properly make your selection of the elements and sometimes it does take
a little bit of maneuvering through the hierarchial representation of our age Tim Page.
So first of all let's go ahead and build it on each Tim Page.
So start with the form and we're going to give it a name of my form
so just call it my form
and next let's add some input fields and there so I'm going to go ahead and create inputs and this one
maybe will.
First of all do type you or else we can input a you are l will give it an ID and we'll give it id of
you or L as well.
And let's give it a name as well of you.
So we've got one input field there and let's create a few other input fields.
So this one will instead of you.
Let's do a text here and let's let's just do first here.
So this will represent another option here to enter an input and let's do one more.
So to call this one last so that we have a variety of inputs that we can work with as well.
So in this as well let's add a text area so we have a larger variety of different inputs and we'll give
it a name and for this one.
Let's call this one.
I would put and then that's it.
We're not going to assign any ID's to there.
And then also I want to create a div and I'm going to give it an ID of another.
And then this will give us some where to maneuver through.
So just call this parent.
So enter in some age to melt some text there calling it parent and let's create some divs nested in
there so we can really get down into maneuvering through what's available within the dorm.
And I'm just going to call these I guess create a series of them and I'm going to have one two three
four.
So just call them test 1 and then I'm going to duplicate this and create a bunch of them.
So they're all going to be nested within this parent which is nested within the form and which is nested
within the body and then all we need to do is go through the document object and we can maneuver through
and pick out the ones that we want to utilize.
So I'm going to update these ideas so that they're all unique.
So they're all going to have unique ideas and I'm just going to update them here numerically so I've
got one two three four so it's easier to understand once we're looking through and maneuvering through
which one we're actually looking at within within the dorm.
And this is where naming your elements is important as well because you want to have the ability to
really easily maneuver and traverse through the door in order to pick out those elements as needed.
So I want to have a bunch of siblings here so basically this is the parent.
And then we've got a bunch of children here.
And these are all siblings to each other.
And this is important to understand the relationship of the nodes one to the other.
And then lastly I wanted to add one more element here and I want to add this in as a button.
So I'm going to give it an idea of beauty in one.
And then we'll do an on click event here for this one.
And whenever this gets fired off it'll run the function and we need to add in some type of functionality
for the function itself.
So let's update that.
And the value will be click here.
So let's go back to our page refresh the page.
So we've got a bunch of H Tim L here and now when Livre we go into our document we can see that when
we maneuver through it we can see we've got all of the elements they're listed and we can now begin
to traverse through the document object so they clear that console and to make it a little bit bigger.
So what I want you to do now is open up your editor and create some h t m l and ideally if you do the
same type of structure that I have where we've got a form we've got a bunch of inputs and we've got
our dibs and then we've got several divs nested with an apparent div because this is going to be important
to understand the relationship between all of the different siblings and how this works when we're maneuvering
through the dorm.
So let's begin.
And the way that we want to start is we actually want to use document and pick up where one of these
divs is located so what the value is of the inner text of one of these device.
So go ahead and build this out and then try out maneuvering to get to div id for.
So not by selecting the ID not by using get element by ID but simply maneuver down through the DOM making
that selection and pull back the value of test for and update that to updated test for.
So go ahead and try that out and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So I hope you had an opportunity to try this out for yourself.
So now let's go do some maneuvering through the door.
So first thing we need to know that we start a document and we go to a body.
So within document body we've got access to all of this information and we know that it's contained
within form so we can maneuver down to the form.
And if you want to see the structure a little bit better you can always go console directory and from
there we can do document body and this will give you a more object formatted view of the different content
that's available within the body.
So the next step is to be able to pick out that element.
So we go by the parent so we know that the parent of it is another.
And then the parent of another is my form.
So we know that the Dom builds that within this higher curial approach.
So in order to get to the children we need to start at the parents so we need to start at the root level.
We started with document body and now we know we need to go down a little bit and we can go into the
different child nodes and notice that there is a difference between child nodes and children.
So the difference between the two is that the child loads include all of the different nodes and there's
a number of different nodes that are available within the dorm.
I believe that there's probably over 10 different types so I'm not exactly sure how many but there are
quite a few.
So we know we've got text form script and we've got a few of them listed here.
So usually the way that I do it you can you can do it in either way you can maneuver through the child
nodes and that will get you to the form or you could go through the children and then you could get
to the forum that way or because this forum actually has a name we can use the my form value.
So either way.
So there's a number of basically paths in order to get to it.
And I'm going to use the named Poth and I do need to include the children for there because this is
one of the children.
So let's update that.
So we've got children.
And then within the children we're going to look for them my form.
So when we output the children we've got this h t m l collection and there we've got them lifeform.
So sometimes it can get fairly long and again it depends on where you're trying to traverse through.
Sometimes it's easier just to make that selection but it's always good to know the different relationships
so now we're going to grab my form and now we've got the form object here.
So now we can go down.
So we've got the parent here and we can go down into the element the div here with the ID of another.
So let's go down in the children and you can see that because we've got an ID we can simply go in to
another and this isn't available when you do child nodes.
You can also do it by the number here within child nodes.
So if you know that it's node number nine then you can move her maneuver into that.
So let's let's try it with child nodes this time.
So next.
So we've got that path and we'll do child nodes and there is a difference.
And it also depends on what you're trying to select.
So you can do it within this type of format.
So now we've gotten into this parent the death of another.
So now we've got access to it.
And again we're presented with a number of different paths that we can take.
So going through this hierarchal process we can go through the child nodes we can go through the children.
So usually I usually prefer to go through the children because it's a little bit easier.
So let's do that now as well because we've got the names there and we've got ideas assigned to it and
if we didn't have the ideas we can always use the numeric representation.
So we know that the numeric representation is three.
So we can grab it via the three or we can just use the object values here and grab child node number
four.
So let's close this off and update this one more time.
So let's do so we were going to do children within this statement.
And I know it's it's getting really long there.
So if we do children that means we've got the collection here of H.T. M-L and the one that we're going
for is for.
So let's update that again.
So children for and let's refreshed that again so now we've got access to the child that we're trying
to maneuver down to.
And now we can make changes to this one as well.
So let's now go ahead and update the inner h team.
Or we could update the inner text and we now need to just enter in some text so type and updated test
for so there we go so now we've updated test for it within that age.
Tim L So once you've made that selection and you've maneuvered down to the element that you want to
look out I want you to set it up in a variable so basically so that we can hold that element information
within a variable.
So there we go.
We've got that particular element and now we can do some more maneuvering and maneuver to the other
ones.
So we're going to be using some built in methods that are available in order to maneuver through.
So let's go ahead and go into selecting the next sibling and this one so we can select a.
Now because we've got that object being represented within the value of a.
And we've got next element sibling.
Next sibling and next element sibling.
And this is the same thing that we were looking at between the node list and the children that we can
select either one and element sibling will represent the number 5.
So if we do next element sibling ID we can see that the ID is number five and we can also do the previous
one as well.
So we don't have to do next to just remove that and we've got another value where we can do previous
elements sibling so we can grab the ID of the previous elements sibling.
So that's three.
So once you've picked out the element you can also maneuver to its siblings and you can get information
from the sibling as well.
So let's go back out to the parent.
And we've seen this one already before where we go out to the parent element.
So if I want to maneuver back up and get content of the parent we see that we can maneuver back up to
the parent.
So once we've gone in to the parent there's a few others that I wanted to show you.
So let's take a look at first child so we've got an option to select the first child so what do you
think is going to get returned there.
If I do first child I.D. and we see that
we get an undefined.
So let's take a closer look at the first child and see what element we're actually selecting.
So there isn't the first child actually is going to be this content here where we're seeing parent.
So there's no element there.
So we're actually selecting the first
node and if we want to select the first element we need to do first element child.
And that's going to grab that first one there.
So now let's grab the ID of that one and we see that now we were able to select that.
And the same thing we can do we can automatically grab the last one.
So just so we grabbed the first one we can do last element child ID.
So what do you think is going to get returned here for the ID.
We see that we're able to grab that last element that's available there.
And again we can traverse through them.
So if we want to get 5 again we could go to the last one and then we could go to the previous sibling
and we could build out this huge long path in order to get to the particular element that we're looking
for.
So go ahead and try do it yourself.
Use the console and challenge yourself to get various values within your aged him El and then make updates
to those values.
Even picking up values from various inputs and updating the values that are contained with it within
the inputs as well.
So once you get really familiar with traverse in the dorm and understanding that hierarchial structure
where they've all got parents and children then you can go down and up and maneuver through them then
you'll be able to really easily select out any element that you want and understand the relationships
within the DOM between the various elements.